
----> Bright Future <----


--------------------------------------------------------

Keys: 

 Prts of Speech, 
 Tenses (Active Voice), 
 Passive Voice,
 Modal Verbs, 
 Hypothetical Situation,

--------------------------------------------------------


Prts of Speech:


 Noun, Pronoun, Verb, Adverb, Adjective, Preposition, Conjunction, Interjection

-----------------------------------------------------------

Tenses (Active Voice):


Types of Tense

In English Grammar, tenses are of three types, that is,

    Present Tense
    Past Tense
    Future Tense

Further, it consists of four forms: 

    Simple (Indefinit)
    Perfect
    Continuous
    Perfect Continuous


So, in total there are 12 tenses which are as follows:

	Tenses	Tenses forms:

	Present Tense:

	Simple Present Tense
	Present Perfect Tense
	Present Continuous Tense
	Present Perfect Continuous Tense

	Past Tense:

	Simple Past Tense 
	Past Perfect Tense
	Past Continuous Tense
	Past Perfect Continuous Tense

	Future Tense:

	Simple Future Tense
	Future Perfect Tense
	Future Continuous Tense 
	Future Perfect Continuous Tense


Below is the table of the examples of tenses-

	Forms						Examples

	Simple Present Tense		He drives a car
	Present Perfect Tense		He is driving a car
	Present Continuous Tense	He has driven a car
	Present Perfect Continuous 	He has been driving a car since morning


	Simple Past Tense			He drove a car
	Past Perfect Tense			He was driving a car
	Past Continuous Tense		He had driven a car
	Past Perfect Continuous 	He had been driving the car since 7 am


	Simple Future Tenses		He will drive a car
	Future Perfect Tense		He will be driving a car
	Future Continuous Tense		He will have driven a car
	Future Perfect Continuous 	He will have been driving the car at 6 am tomorrow






General Formula for Simple Present Tense: 

Subject + Verb in the base form/third person plural form + the rest of the sentence

Simple Present Tense Examples:

    Rajesh eats bread and butter before going to school.
    Elisa watches cartoons every day.
    Rupa drinks milk every night before going to bed.
    John goes to the gym daily.
    Dileep smokes.
    Shilpa reads the newspaper every day.


General formula for Present Continuous Tense:

Subject + Helping Verb(am/is/are) + Main verb + ing + the rest of the sentence

Present Continuous Tense Examples:

    Students are going to school.
    The girls are playing in the park.
    Rupali is crying out loud.
    It is raining now.
    I am cooking biryani for the lunch.
    Miss Angela is teaching in the class.


General Formula for Present Perfect Tense:
Subject + Helping Verb (have/has) + Past participle of the main verb + the rest of the sentence along with the time frame

Present Perfect Tense Example

    She has lived here all her life.
    They have written three letters already.
    I have worked here since I graduated school.
    He has finished his homework.
    We have been to Canada.
    She has forgotten her folder.



General Formula for Present Perfect Continuous Tense:

Subject + Have/Has + Been + Verb+ ing + the rest of the sentence

Present Perfect Continuous Tense Examples:

    I have been working on this project for a week.
    You have been working on this project for a week.
    He has been working on this project for a week.
    She has been working on this project for a week.
    They have been working on this project for a week.



General Formula for Simple Past Tense:

Subject + Verb + ed / verb in the past tense + the rest of the sentence

Simple Past Tense Examples:

    Nupur went to the supermarket yesterday.
    Satya cooked a tasty dinner yesterday.
    My sister saw a movie yesterday.
    Last month I travelled to France.
    I washed the dishes.
    My sister bought a dress for me.


General Formula For Past Continuous Tense:

Subject + Helping Verb(was/were) + Main verb + ing + the rest of the sentence

Past Continuous Tense Examples:

    It was snowing today.
    They were eating at the dhaba.
    You were working tomorrow.
    I was studying last night.
    I was waiting for the cab when I met Usha.
    The student were shouting when the teacher came in.
    It was midnight when it was raining.
    Everyone was clapping. 


General Formula For past Perfect Tense:

Subject + Helping Verb (had) + Past participle of the main verb + the rest of the sentence along with the time frame.

Past Perfect Tense Examples:

    She had met him before the party.
    The plane had left by the time I got to the airport.
    I had written the email before he apologized.
    Kate had wanted to see the movie, but she did not have money for the ticket.


General Formula For Past Perfect Continuous Tense:

Subject + Had + Been + Verb + ing + the rest of the sentence

Past Perfect Continuous Tense Examples:

    He had been drinking milk out the carton when Mom walked into the kitchen.
    I had been working at the company for five years when I got the promotion.
    Martha had been walking three miles a day before she broke her leg.
    The program that was terminated had been working well since 1945.
    Cathy had been playing the piano for 35 years when she was finally asked to do a solo with the local orchestra.
    He had been throwing rocks at her window for five minutes before she finally came out on the balcony and said, “Hey, Romeo.”



General Formula For Simple Future Tense:

Subject + will/shall + V1 + Object

Simple Future Tense Examples:

    I will write articles on different topics.
    Robert will read various kinds of books.
    They will play football in that field.
    April will prefer coffee to tea.
    Bob will go to the library tomorrow.
    We will go shopping in that market this Monday.



General Formula For Future Continuous Tense:

 Subject + will be/shall be + V1 + ing + Object

Future Continuous Tense Examples:

    It will be raining from tomorrow.
    I will be watching the series today.
    They will be staying at my place.
    The parcel will be arriving soon.
    The doctor will be coming tomorrow.
    The Prime Minister will be visiting the museum tomorrow.


General Formula For Future Perfect Tense:

Subject + will have/shall have + V3 + Object

Future Perfect Tense Examples:

    I will have dressed up by the time you reach home.
    You will have dressed up by the time they reach home.
    He will have dressed up by the time you reach home.
    She will have dressed up by the time you reach home.
    They will have dressed up by the time you reach home. She will be taking her dog for a walk.



-----------------------------------------------------------

 Passive Voice:

-----------------------------------------------------------

 Modal Verbs: 

-----------------------------------------------------------

 Hypothetical Situation:

-----------------------------------------------------------